# Network Slice Setup Optimization

## Project for the Networking II Unitn Course 2021/2022

The project aims to create the simulation of a scenario where an SDN divided in slices runs a service on a server. The network controller monitors the performance and migrates the service in order to have the best average performance for the hosts.

## Main components

### Northbound script

The northbound script runs with the help of the ryu controller and offers a network slicing. The script also launches a thread for monitoring the network performance sent by the hosts and decides whether to migrate or not the service.

### Monitoring script

The monitoring scripts computes the mean of the performance of every link between the server and the hosts and, based on that, decides if a service migration is required. If so, it requests the migration and waits for the hosts to send data about the connection with the available servers. The script calculates the best server based on the performance and request the migration to the selected server.

### Network script

The network script generates the network and launches the performance tests on the hosts. When a migration is asked, it performs the migration of the service to the selected server.

## Other components

### Modules

Set of modules for the scripts that allow to perform common operations such as writing log files and reading configuration files

### Configuration files

Set of files that contain settings for the scripts and allow the user to customize the program.

### Log files

Set of files that contain information generated by the scripts, used to communicate with each other or just for logging.

## Requirements

- Comnetsemu
- Mininet
- Ryu
- Python3

## Instruction for installation and how to run

Clone the repository

Run the bash script or execute the following commands:

sudo mn -c

ryu-manager controller.py

sudo python3 network.py

## Credits

Project created by Cernei Decebal & Sartori Davide




